docs/kata.md, before:

# Kata Containers

Most of the Kata development happens in our [Kata fork](
https://github.com/csegarragonz/kata-containers). The reason why we use a fork
is to pin to an older, but stable, CC release, and add patches on top when
necessary. Down the road (and particularly when CoCo uses Kata's main), we'd
get rid of the fork.

## Tweaking Kata

To get a working environment to modify Kata, clone our fork and build/exec into
the workon container. For convenience, it is recommended to clone the fork at
the same directory level that this repo lives (i.e. ../kata-containers).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/csegarragonz/kata-containers
cd kata-containers
./csg-bin/build_docker.sh
./csg-bin/cli.sh
```

## Replacing the Kata Agent

Replacing the Kata Agent is something we may do regularly, and is a fairly
automated process.

First, from our Kata fork, rebuild the `kata-agent` binary:

```bash
cd ../kata-containers
./csg-bin/cli.sh
cd src/agent
make
exit
cd -
```

Second, from this repository, bake the new agent into the `initrd` image used
by `qemu-sev` and update the config path:

```bash
inv kata.replace-agent
```

The new VMs you start should use the new `initrd` (and thus the updated
`kata-agent`).

Commit message:

kata: make build and work-on self-containerd

docs/kata.md, after:

# Kata Containers

Most of the Kata development happens in our [Kata fork](
https://github.com/csegarragonz/kata-containers). The reason why we use a fork
is to pin to an older, but stable, CC release, and add patches on top when
necessary. Down the road (and particularly when CoCo uses Kata's main), we'd
get rid of the fork.

## Tweaking Kata

We provide a containerised environment to develop/patch Kata. First, build the
workon container image using:

```bash
inv kata.build
```

then you may get a shell by running:

```bash
inv kata.cli
```

> [!WARNING]
> The changes you make inside the Kata environment won't be persisted across
> container restarts. This is a deliberate design choice. You can hot-patch
> the Kata Agent by following the instructions in the following section. To
> permanently patch it, push the changes to the `csg-main` branch and re-build
> the container: `inv kata.build --nocache`.

## Replacing the Kata Agent

Replacing the Kata Agent is something we may do regularly, and is a fairly
automated process.

First, enter the Kata CLI, make changes to the `kata-agent` binary, and re-build
it:

```bas
inv kata.cli
cd src/agent
...
# Make changes
...
make
exit
inv kata.replace-agent
```

The new VMs you start should use the new `initrd` (and thus the updated
`kata-agent`).
